# Myth Systems

##

Myth Systems, that lens of interpretation has always been so interesting to me, even before it was named in my head. 

This comes to my artistic drives again, but something I loved to do was imagine different worlds, how things fit together, be a world builder, in a sense, from a writing perspective. 

When I was younger, trying to think of all the possible things that could be combined, or that would be needed to understand ... a build world from start to end times.. I would make lists for myself. Lists of different Myth Creatures, Names for unique or interesting parts of different animals that could be cross applied to some sort of magic system, religions or different ideas around Religion, etc. I had binders full. That sort of exploration excited me. I think that came from Manga and Anime and the Dominance Hiarachy Climb style of narrative structure in Shonen Manga, as well as pictures and images, while I was listening to music, and the overlays that I experienced while reading and imaging. 

Anyways, because of that skillset, when I approached ... or, that is to say, doing the above, and some other things, I created a sort of engine that would run in my head and would listen for things that would excite it, when I was mentally in the right place, to create ideas and worlds. 

So, when I approached a few things that I wanted to learn about at the time - The Double Slit Experiment/MultiWorlds Theory, The Start of the Universe, Sethian/Agnostic Gospels, etc ... I suppose all of those were exposure therapy exersize, if I'm being honest, but I few things clicked for me... I could sort of abstractly world build ideas of this and, for my internal system, overlay them properly. Like, If we approached religious texts like Magic systems that had dependancies and had to work, what would it look like? - That's sort of the Idea as a whole. 

Here are a few: 

So, there was this question posed: How Can God be All Powerful, All Loving, and All Merciful, or something like that, and still allow hell to occur, etc. The Thought was an interesting one, but there is an easy solve for that: 

- Let's supposed God itself is at the start of "time" or "change" and it's just everything. It's possibility incarnate. Always shifting and never anything specific. Now, if it goes out into this absolute void and tries to create ... perhaps it ties itself into the running system. It may get feedback. Let's assume "sin" is an infection, and let's super impose the image of a sinking ship, to a degree, if the ship waits too long it sinks and everyone loses ... If the infection hits the system, or gets to enough denesity that it changes how possibility works in the system itself, all while the captain got his hand on the watch like "look, all I can do is what I can do, here is everyone you need to know, etc." Then all three elements of that would be true, if we include the fact that personal agency within reality itself has to be respected. And, Alot of running equations at once.

- Now, let's go to the more... damn, like I think it's Sethian? Gospels for a bit. Look up the youtube channel [Religion for Breakfast](https://www.youtube.com/@ReligionForBreakfast) if you want any further info than I'm going to provide, but there is another intreptation, or a few variables of things. Like, there is a Grand Frequency. Let's call that Top Level. or Bottom. It's the System level God-God, in a sense. Then a row below later or two, we have what actually created the universe - the demiurge. Keeping in mind there are other beings at his level, and the angels below, etc. This being is more the bad guy, in a sense, while Lucifer has come to help give agency, in a sense, back to those trapped within the world of another? something like that. What stuck out to me though, was the Grand Frequency. See, if you have this ultimate possibility matrix, like it's possibility itself .. outside of God, the Angels, etc, then an internal struggle makes more sense, right? like how you gonna take control of... the thing that is existance itself? It makes noooo sense to me. the "War" in Heaven, I mean. The Concept, without there being something else, or a way to be God .... it's idiotic.  So, what was interesting to me ... around the same time, to come back to the double slit experiment. We have this experiment that prove that humans have direct agency in the control of how waveforms close. 
We also observe that when not directly ... I guess, with us trying to get that exact result, or see it, when it's not being measured, to be more specific, things interact differently, and how the waveforms close ... those equations seem to be more affected by outside variables,  perhaps, and things act more erratic. 
This is interesting, cause we can pose a few world building questions here to ... test what we may or may not see: 
  -  How Far out does the affect decay at, when we measure that specific element? or is it just a flat drop when we aren't measuring, basically, with agency, trying to get something to do X. 
  -  If Humans are the only known species to cause this effect to occur in the universe, then ... heh, if someone ever does meet an Extra Terrestrial with concious intelligence, and we are able to communicate, I would be fucking CURIOUS to know if they cause the same effect on the universe.  
  -  The Concept of a Wave and a Frequency, overlap. The Big Bang is Analogous with the Creation story, at least in the sense of a single origination point, perhaps, or that "Boom" into existance, if nothing else. If we have this aboslute void of nothing, and then this absolute possibility frequency, it sort of looks to me like E=N - that sort of ultimate balanced equation of absolute everything and absolute nothing, in co-existance. I think, interestingly, everything could be, at least representationally represented with a subeqution, maybe on the N side, but completely independant of N. like 0 x anything is still 0, right? So, if I take the concept even further, we could sort of have a new subequation, either running as a variable, or completed, making a sort of skeleton out of dependancies. 

[Table of Contents](https://github.com/mycroftwilde/devil-steps-in-a-myth-system/tree/main/ref_guide)
